{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20120\viewh14620\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf0 Quantum information processing provides an avenue for improving many computational tasks. One route to implement quantum information processing tasks is via quantum random walks. Quantum random walks exhibit many unique features as compared to classical random walks such as a ballistic rate of spreading through the lattice as opposed to a linear rate. Additionally, it has been shown that a quantum random walk is equivalent to the boson-sampling model, so studying quantum random walks will also shed light on the boson-sampling model. \
\
In our work a two-dimensional quantum random walk is studied on congested lattices using the metrics of escape probability and variance. Congestion is modelled by defects on a predetermined lattice. As the walker evolves it walks into these defects and then reverses direction as though that path was blocked. Our dephasing process is implemented on each state vector representing the coin and position independently after each step of the quantum random walk. With full dephasing the walk is equivalent to a classical random walk allowing us to interpolate between the two. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 Our key results show that a quantum walker escapes a finite boundary dramatically faster than a classical walker and that this advantage remains in the presence of heavily congested lattices. Also, we observe that a quantum walker is extremely sensitive to our model of dephasing.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural
\cf0 We suggest the following knowledgeable referees to review our article:\
\
Paul Knott - paulk444@hotmail.com - University of Leeds\
Yutaka Shikano -Shikano.titech@gmail.com - Tokyo Institute of Technology\
Jingbo Wang - wang@physics.uwa.edu.au - The University of Western Australia\
Matthew Broome - m.a.broome@googlemail.com - University of Queensland\
}