{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red77\green0\blue105;\red26\green26\blue26;\red199\green141\blue0;
\red59\green0\blue164;\red85\green142\blue40;\red41\green0\blue130;\red0\green45\blue153;\red137\green152\blue14;
\red0\green61\blue204;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21540\viewh19280\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs38 \cf2 Both referees agree that the paper is technically correct\cf3 , but does not\
contain enough novelty to justify publication in NJP\
\
SECOND REFEREE'S REPORT\
============================\
The authors of the manuscript "Quantum random walks on congested\
lattices" present results of numerical calculations of quantum walks\
on a two dimensional lattice subject to two types of disorders. \cf4 It\
appears that their aim is to study a transport phenomena similar to\
that in percolation\cf3 , and to this end they calculate and analyse of two\
quantities, one they call variance, and another they call probability\
of escape.\
\
\
A) The authors' only tool is direct simulation of quantum walks used to\
implement a Monte-Carlo method of averaging. This approach has serious\
limitations regarding the number of steps (system sizes) that can be\
studied, since the sample space for Monte-Carlo averaging grows\
exponentially. It is thus not surprising that the authors are limited\
to the simulation of 20 steps at maximum, if I'm correct.\
\
B) For transport phenomena (and percolation could be understood as such)\
studied earlier in the literature [PRB 84 195139 (2011)] system sizes\
of 10^4 were necessary to observe certain behaviour. Perhaps, in the case of the studied problem, such system sizes are not necessary. However, the presented work does not allow any glimpse into this aspect: \
\
\cf5 Keith: I don't understand how it is quite evident that the variance has almost exactly the same statistics for the two walks. But I did add a note about the transient regime.\cf3 \
C) the authors choose the boundary of escape at 2 and 4, and\
both for the classical and the quantum walk this boundary is reached\
in a time that can easily be regarded as a \cf6 transient regime\cf3 , where the\
long-time dynamics hasn't set in. For example, it is quite evident\
from the graphs showing the "variance" sigma, that the two walks have\
almost exactly the same statistics.\
\
\cf7 Keith: I'm not sure how to do this: \
\cf3 The authors seem to rely on Monte-Carlo simulation and numerics\
perhaps too extensively. For example, the dephasing could be easily\
calculated directly (without generating phase distributions and then\
averaging) by implementing a code iterating the evolution of density\
matrices, generating only a quadratic overhead compared to the\
non-dephasing case. Such an approach work not necessitate the\
simulation of the classical random walk (as mentioned on page 5 just\
below Fig 3).\
\
I have several observations regarding the clarity of the manuscript\
also:\
\
D) The authors state that they consider a finite lattice, however, it\
is never mentioned what boundary conditions they apply.\
\
E) For walkers started from the edge, the role of edge states is very\
important. The authors pay no attention to this.\
\
F) The definition of "variance" is unclear. What is p_i? From the text\
it appears that sigma is the variance of the marginal distribution\
along the x axis. In any case this should be clearly stated in the\
manuscript.\
\
G) The definition of the parameter t_b is also confusing. In words,\
the parameter t_b is the distance from the left edge. However, there's\
also a formula saying that the boundary is understood at x=t_b. For\
initial states x=-t_min, these two definitions are incompatible.\
\
I am missing the following analysis from the manuscript:\cf8 \
\
\cf3 H) There is no study of the variance's dependence on the degree of\
congestion against the number of steps: ballistic, diffusive or\
localized? These regimes would correspond to the quantum, classical\
conductor, and insulator cases.\
\
J) The authors do not present any data for a regime of congestion\
where the classical system would be insulating. This would be very\
interesting for the readers to see if such effect is visible also in\
the quantum version of the problem.\
\
\cf8 Interesting Idea\cf3 \
K) Finally, I see no analysis of how the escape probability depends on\
the position of the boundary t_b. Such analysis would help to\
orientate where the \cf6 transients\cf3  die out (see comment above).\
\
FIRST REFEREE'S REPORT\
============================\
The authors numerically studied the two-dimensional discrete-time quantum\
walk with the random defects, which correspond to the different quantum coin at this site. They compared the classical site-percolation. \
\
\cf8 Keith: We will not be able to do this due to the small graphs available but we can discuss the scaling hypothesis.\
\cf3 L) However, they did not numerically find the percolation threshold in their model and did not discuss the \cf9 scaling hypothesis\cf3 . \
\
Therefore, I do not understand the importance and the physical meaning of the comparison between their model and the site-percolation. I cannot recommend this manuscript to be published from New Journal of Physics. Further reasons are written in the following.\
\cf10 \
\cf3 M) While they studied the effect of the dephasing up to t = 10 step and\
claimed the classical correspondence probability p_d = 0.005, I suspect that this probability p_d seems to depend on the maximum time step. They must\
consider this.\
\
N) While their model is different to those of the previous studies [30,\
31], I do not understand the difference on the physical meaning to those.\
\
O) Their model seems to be related to the Anderson localization in the\
two-dimensional case. Therefore, I recommend that the authors consider such a research direction.\
}